README.md, before:

<div align="center" width="100%">
    <img src="frontend/static/gopher.svg" width="150" />
</div>

<div align="center" width="100%">
    <h2>UpSnap</h2>
    <p>A simple wake on lan web app written with SvelteKit, Go and PocketBase.</p>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/upsnap"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/seriousm4x/upsnap" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/seriousm4x/upsnap/total" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/seriousm4x/UpSnap?filename=backend/go.mod" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/seriousm4x/upsnap?display_name=tag" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/actions"><img src="https://github.com/seriousm4x/upsnap/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg?event=push" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/commits/master"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/seriousm4x/upsnap" /></a>
</div>

## ✨ Features

- 🚀 One-Click Device Wake-Up Dashboard
- ⏰ Timed Events via Cron for Automation
- 🔌 Ping Any Port You Choose
- 🔍 Discover Devices with Network Scanning (nmap required)
- 👤 Secured User Management
- 🌐 i18n support for [these](https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/tree/master/frontend/src/lib/i18n) languages
- 🎨 29 Themes
- 🐳 [Docker images](https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/pkgs/container/upsnap) for amd64, arm64, arm/v7, arm/v6
- 🏠 Self-Hostable, No Cloud Bullshit!

## 📸 Screenshots

| Dark                              | Light                              |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| ![](/assets/home-dark.webp)       | ![](/assets/home-light.webp)       |
| ![](/assets/account-dark.webp)    | ![](/assets/account-light.webp)    |
| ![](/assets/new-manual-dark.webp) | ![](/assets/new-manual-light.webp) |
| ![](/assets/new-scan-dark.webp)   | ![](/assets/new-scan-light.webp)   |
| ![](/assets/settings-dark.webp)   | ![](/assets/settings-light.webp)   |
| ![](/assets/users-dark.webp)      | ![](/assets/users-light.webp)      |

## 🚀 Run the binary

Just download the latest binary from the [release page](https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases) and run it.

### Root:

```bash
sudo ./upsnap serve --http=0.0.0.0:8090
```

### Non-root:

```bash
sudo setcap cap_net_raw=+ep ./upsnap # only once after downloading
./upsnap serve --http=0.0.0.0:8090
```

For more options check `./upsnap --help` or visit [PocketBase documentation](https://pocketbase.io/docs).

If you want to use network discovery, make sure to have `nmap` installed and run UpSnap as root/admin.

## 🐳 Run in docker

You can use the [docker-compose](docker-compose.yml) example. See the comments in the file for customization.

### Non-root docker user:

Create the mount point first:

```bash
mkdir data
```

Then add `user: 1000:1000` to the docker-compose file (or whatever your $UID:$GID is).

### Change port

If you want to change the port from 8090 to something else, change the following (5000 in this case):

```yml
entrypoint: /bin/sh -c "./upsnap serve --http 0.0.0.0:5000"
healthcheck:
  test: curl -fs "http://localhost:5000/api/health" || exit 1
```

### Install additional packages for shutdown cmd

```yml
entrypoint: /bin/sh -c "apk update && apk add --no-cache <YOUR_PACKAGE> && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/* && ./upsnap serve --http 0.0.0.0:8090"
```

You can search for your needed package [here](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/packages).

### Reverse Proxy

**Caddy example**

```
upsnap.example.com {
    reverse_proxy localhost:8090
}
```

## 🔒 User permissions

UpSnap offers unique access for each user, per device. While admins have all permissions, they can assign specific rights to users such as displaying/hiding a device, accessing device editing, deleting and powering devices on/off. See the last screenshot in the [📸 Screenshots section](#-screenshots).

## 🌍 Exposing to the open web

Although UpSnap has user authorisation, it is **not recommended to expose it to the open web** and make it accessible by everyone!

**Reason**: The shutdown device command is basically a command piped to #sh (root if you run docker). If anyone gains unauthorized access and can abuse this api route in any way, the attacker has access to a (root) shell on your local network.

**Recommended**: If you need access from outside your network, please use a vpn. Wireguard or OpenVPN is your way to go.

## 🔧 Help developing

Fork this branch and clone it.

1. Start backend

```sh
cd backend
go mod tidy
go run main.go serve
```

2. Start frontend

```sh
cd frontend
pnpm i
pnpm run dev
```

Open up [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/), create an admin user and add some devices.

## 🌟 Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=seriousm4x/UpSnap&type=Date&theme=dark)](https://star-history.com/#seriousm4x/UpSnap&Date)

Commit message:

add translating info to readme

README.md, after:

<div align="center" width="100%">
    <img src="frontend/static/gopher.svg" width="150" />
</div>

<div align="center" width="100%">
    <h2>UpSnap</h2>
    <p>A simple wake on lan web app written with SvelteKit, Go and PocketBase.</p>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/upsnap"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/seriousm4x/upsnap" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/seriousm4x/upsnap/total" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/seriousm4x/UpSnap?filename=backend/go.mod" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/seriousm4x/upsnap?display_name=tag" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/actions"><img src="https://github.com/seriousm4x/upsnap/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg?event=push" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/commits/master"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/seriousm4x/upsnap" /></a>
</div>

## ✨ Features

- 🚀 One-Click Device Wake-Up Dashboard
- ⏰ Timed Events via Cron for Automation
- 🔌 Ping Any Port You Choose
- 🔍 Discover Devices with Network Scanning (nmap required)
- 👤 Secured User Management
- 🌐 i18n support for [these](https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/tree/master/frontend/src/lib/i18n) languages
- 🎨 29 Themes
- 🐳 [Docker images](https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/pkgs/container/upsnap) for amd64, arm64, arm/v7, arm/v6
- 🏠 Self-Hostable, No Cloud Bullshit!

## 📸 Screenshots

| Dark                              | Light                              |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| ![](/assets/home-dark.webp)       | ![](/assets/home-light.webp)       |
| ![](/assets/account-dark.webp)    | ![](/assets/account-light.webp)    |
| ![](/assets/new-manual-dark.webp) | ![](/assets/new-manual-light.webp) |
| ![](/assets/new-scan-dark.webp)   | ![](/assets/new-scan-light.webp)   |
| ![](/assets/settings-dark.webp)   | ![](/assets/settings-light.webp)   |
| ![](/assets/users-dark.webp)      | ![](/assets/users-light.webp)      |

## 🐧 Install from the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/upsnap-bin)

```bash
yay -Sy upsnap-bin
```

## 🚀 Run the binary

Just download the latest binary from the [release page](https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/releases) and run it.

### Root:

```bash
sudo ./upsnap serve --http=0.0.0.0:8090
```

### Non-root:

```bash
sudo setcap cap_net_raw=+ep ./upsnap # only once after downloading
./upsnap serve --http=0.0.0.0:8090
```

For more options check `./upsnap --help` or visit [PocketBase documentation](https://pocketbase.io/docs).

If you want to use network discovery, make sure to have `nmap` installed and run UpSnap as root/admin.

## 🐳 Run in docker

You can use the [docker-compose](docker-compose.yml) example. See the comments in the file for customization.

### Non-root docker user:

Create the mount point first:

```bash
mkdir data
```

Then add `user: 1000:1000` to the docker-compose file (or whatever your $UID:$GID is).

### Change port

If you want to change the port from 8090 to something else, change the following (5000 in this case):

```yml
entrypoint: /bin/sh -c "./upsnap serve --http 0.0.0.0:5000"
healthcheck:
  test: curl -fs "http://localhost:5000/api/health" || exit 1
```

### Install additional packages for shutdown cmd

```yml
entrypoint: /bin/sh -c "apk update && apk add --no-cache <YOUR_PACKAGE> && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/* && ./upsnap serve --http 0.0.0.0:8090"
```

You can search for your needed package [here](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/packages).

### Reverse Proxy

**Caddy example**

```
upsnap.example.com {
    reverse_proxy localhost:8090
}
```

## 🔒 User permissions

UpSnap offers unique access for each user, per device. While admins have all permissions, they can assign specific rights to users such as displaying/hiding a device, accessing device editing, deleting and powering devices on/off. See the last screenshot in the [📸 Screenshots section](#-screenshots).

## 🌍 Exposing to the open web

Although UpSnap has user authorisation, it is **not recommended to expose it to the open web** and make it accessible by everyone!

**Reason**: The shutdown device command is basically a command piped to #sh (root if you run docker). If anyone gains unauthorized access and can abuse this api route in any way, the attacker has access to a (root) shell on your local network.

**Recommended**: If you need access from outside your network, please use a vpn. Wireguard or OpenVPN is your way to go.

## 🌐 Help translating

UpSnap is available in the following languages so far:

- 🇺🇸 **English** (en-US)
- 🇩🇪 **German** (de-DE)
- 🇵🇹 **Portuguese** (pt-PT)

**If you want to contribute and help translating, check the wiki: [How to add languages](https://github.com/seriousm4x/UpSnap/wiki/Ho-to-add-languages)**

## 🔧 Help developing

Fork this branch and clone it.

1. Start backend

```sh
cd backend
go mod tidy
go run main.go serve
```

2. Start frontend

```sh
cd frontend
pnpm i
pnpm run dev
```

Open up [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/), create an admin user and add some devices.

## 🌟 Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=seriousm4x/UpSnap&type=Date&theme=dark)](https://star-history.com/#seriousm4x/UpSnap&Date)
